PHY F111

This course covers Oscillation, waves and Newtonian mechanics. This is a core
course to be taught to all Science and Engineering students. It is assumed that students are familiar
with basic introduction to mechanics.

BIO F111
The course is aimed to provide a broad introduction to the major principles and topics in biology. The
relationship of the living organism with its environment at the molecular level is highlighted, in line with
modern research in biological sciences.The course offers an opportunity to the students in all disciplines to
understand the beautiful working of Nature – undoubtedly the best architect till date – and to apply the
knowledge gained to solve challenging problems in science and/or engineering.

BITS F112
The main objective of the course is to help the learners develop skills in writing technical reports.
The students will learn about the various stages involved in formulating a problem, conducting a
study and presenting their findings in the form of a Technical Report. 

CHEM F111
The course covers topics from physical chemistry such as basics of
quantum theory, electronic structure of atoms and molecules, spectroscopy, thermodynamics, chemical
equilibrium and chemical kinetics. Stereochemistry and reactivity of organic compounds are discussed as
topics from organic chemistry along with reaction mechansims. A comprehensive survey of the concepts
involved in the study of the transition metal coordination complexes, valence bond theory (VBT) and crystal
field theory (CFT) for inorganic complexes are included as topics from inorganic chemistry.

MATH F111
The course is intended as a basic course in Calculus of Several Variables and Vector Analysis. It includes convergence 
of sequences and series, polar coordinates, the study of functions of several variables, their partial derivatives, 
integration of functions of several variables, and the theorems of Green, Gauss and Stokes.

PHY F110
Physics lab 1 experiments are designed to give students an experimental flavor of concepts related to
mechanics, oscillations and waves. The course will help the students to validate and verify the
theoretical concepts through experimentation and data analysis. Apart from developing their basic
experimental skills, students will be taught to analyze and report the type of error propagating in their
experiments due to unavoidable constraints.

MATH F113
Probability theorydeals with many real life problems, which either inherently involve the chance
phenomena or describe the behavior of the system explicitly with statistical properties.
Interpretation of the system behavior in many engineering aspects depends on concept of
probability and statistics that familiarize with the computational aspects. This course
explains the basic properties of random variables, probability distributions, statistical
inferences, and other related concepts.

MATH F112
The course is meant as an introduction to Linear Algebra, and theory of Complex Variable functions. Study of
linear algebra helps us in solving the system of linear equations and various properties of linear transformations.
Systems of linear equations are needed to be solved in several branches of sciences and engineering. Complex
analysis deals with the method of solving contour integrals, which cannot be evaluated through our conventional
techniques.

EEE F111
This is an introductory course mandatory for all first year students admitted in any
discipline. While the students of electrical and electronics engineering department and computer science and
information systems department will take more advanced courses in electronics as a follow up, this course
provides the basics of electronics to students of other disciplines to pursue their own discipline courses and also
to venture into interdisciplinary electives.

CS F111
The primary goals of the course are to introduce basic representation of data and how to process data using the representation
inside a computer, techniques for specifying data, operations on data, and problem solving using a programming
language ,and systematic techniques and approaches for constructing programs.There is also a laboratory component that involves
development and testing of iterative and procedural programs using bounded and unbounded iterations,
function composition, random access lists, sequential access lists, dynamically allocated lists, and file
access.

CHEM F110
To expose the students to experimental methods of chemistry and to integrate theoretical knowledge and
concept to practical experience. Students will learn analytical methods, synthetic procedures, operation of
scientific equipments for collecting data and the analysis of collected data for final interpretation.

BITS F111
Thermodynamics deals with energy, matter, and the laws governing their interactions. It is essential
to learn its usefulness in the design of processes, devices, and systems involving effective utilization
of energy and matter. The course emphasizes on the fundamentals and concepts of the laws of
thermodynamics as applied to control mass and control volume systems. Irreversibility and
availability are powerful tools in the design of thermodynamic systems.

BITS F110
Engineering Graphics is the primary medium for conceptualizing and communicating design
concepts during development of engineering goods. The objective of the course is to train the
students in this important skill needed for all engineering disciplines and familiarize them with
established engineering drawing practice through video lecturing as well as hands on training.